.. _intro-to-cachemodel:

CacheModel
==========

To make the management of cached data easier, ``bettercache`` provides a
structured model for data caching, without the developer constantly
building up ad-hoc key strings. This should be a familiar interface,
fashioned after Django's own database models.

::

    class User(CacheModel):
        username = Key()
        email = Field()
        full_name = Field()

    user = User(
        username = 'bob',
        email = 'bob@hotmail.com',
        full_name = 'Bob T Fredrick',
    )
    user.save()
    
    ...

    user = User.get(username='bob')
    user.email == 'bob@hotmail.com'
    user.full_name == 'Bob T Fredrick'

``CacheModel`` subclasses are a collection of ``Key`` and ``Field``
properties to
populate with data to be stored in the cache. The creation of keys are
automatic, based on the ``CacheModel`` class and the values given for all
the ``Key`` fields for an instance.

The cache objects can save any fields with JSON-serializable values, but
this does not include other instances of ``CacheModel``. If you'd like
to connect multiple cached entities, you can do so with the field type
``Reference``.

::

    class Workplace(CacheModel):
        name = Key()
        phone = Field()
        address = Field()
        employee_count = Field()

    class User(CacheModel):
        username = Key()
        email = Field()
        full_name = Field()

        workplace = Reference(Workplace)
        
        mother = Reference('self')
        father = Reference('self')
    
``Reference`` fields are created with a single argument: either a
``CacheModel`` class which the field must reference, or ``'self'`` to
refernce instances of the same class as itself.


CachedMethod
================

One useful CacheModel is included with ``bettercache``, named
``bettercache.decorators.CachedMethod``. This class acts as a decorator for
methods, and will cache the results of those methods using a defined set of
attributes from the instance. For any instance of the class with the same
values for this set of attributes, the method will use the cached value
properly, but also use its own parameters. 

This is a decorator-factory, and it takes one required parameter and one
optional.

::

    @CachedMethod('attributes to cache on', expires=SECONDS)

::

    class Home(object):

        def __init__(self, address):
            self.address = address

        @CachedMethod('address')
        def geocode(self):
            return g.geocode(self.address)


CachedFormMethod
==================

An included CachedMethod decorator sublass which knows how to cache methods on
Django forms, such that given the same form results, the methods will be
cached from previous forms with the same results. This caches based on the
`cleaned_data` rather than pre-validation `data`, so if your cleaning
normalizes the input the caching will be more efficient.

::

    class FriendsLookup(forms.Form):

        username = forms.CharField(required=True)

        @CachedFormMethod(expires=60*15) # expire in 15 minutes
        def get_friends_list(self, include_pending=False):
            username = self.cleaned_data['username']
            friends = Friendship.objects.filter(
                from_user__username=username)
            if include_pending:
                friends = friends.filter(status__in=(PENDING, APPROVED))
            else:
                friends = friends.filter(status=APPROVED)

            return friends


API Reference
-------------

``CacheModel``
    A base class you can inherit and define structures to store in the cache,
    much like a Django Model storing data in the database.

``CacheModel.Missing``
    An exception raised when an object cannot be found in the cache.

``CacheModel.save()``
    Sends the serialized object to the cache for storage.

``CacheModel.get(key1=x, key2=y)``
    Looks for an instance of the cache model to load and return, by
    the keys given. All keys defined in the model without defaults
    must be given.

``CacheModel.from_miss(**kwargs)``
    When you define a ``CacheModel`` subclass, you can opt to implement
    the ``from_miss()`` method, which will be called on an instance of
    your class with the keys which couldn't be found in the database.

    Your ``from_miss()`` method should initialize the instance, after
    which the object will be saved to the cache and returned back from
    the original ``get()`` call in the first place.

``Key``
    At least one of your fields must be defined as a ``Key``, which
    will be combined with the class information to generate a unique
    key to identify the object in the cache.

``Field``
    In your ``CacheModel``, you should define one or more ``Field``
    properties. The values of these properties in your instance will
    all be serialized and sent to the cache when the object is saved.

``Reference``
    If a field needs to contain other ``CacheModel`` instances, you may
    use the special field type ``Reference``, which will fetch the referenced
    instance from the cache at load time. If any referenced fields in
    a model are missing, the entire model is considered invalid and a
    ``get()`` will raise a ``CacheModel.Missing`` exception.

``PickleField``
    Special field type which uses the python ``pickle`` format, rather
    than ``JSON``, for serialization. This should only be used in
    special cases, as pickle has a number of drawbacks and corner cases.

